\input texinfo    @c -*-texinfo-*-
@comment %**start of header
@setfilename AmiFTP
@settitle AmiFTP @value{edition} Documentation
@setchapternewpage odd
@c paragraphindent 2
@comment %**end of header

@comment AmiFTP.texi
@comment Documentation for AmiFTP
@comment Copyright (c) 1995 Magnus Lilja

@set edition 0.699
@set UPDATE-DATE 24 September 1995
@set update-month September 1995

@ifinfo
Manual for AmiFTP version @value{edition}

Copyright @copyright{} 1995 Magnus Lilja
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title AmiFTP
@subtitle A ftp utility for use with AmiTCP
@subtitle Version {edition}

@author by Magnus Lilja

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll

AmiFTP is Copyright @copyright{} 1995 Magnus Lilja. All Rights Reserved
Portions of the code originated from Berkely.

@end titlepage

@node Top, Copyright, (dir), (dir)
     @code{AmiFTP @value{edition} Documentation}

Copyright © 1995 Magnus Lilja. All Rights Reserved.

This manual was updated: @value{UPDATE-DATE}

@menu
* I  : Copyright.        Copyright and distribution stuff
* II : Addresses.        Where to send comments, bug reports etc.

* III: Requirements.     What do you need to use AmiFTP?
* IV : Installation.     How to install AmiFTP
* V  : Usage.            How to use it

* A  : Acknowledgements. Thanks to...
* B  : History.          Revision history
@end menu

@node Copyright, Addresses, Top, Top
@code{Copyright and distribution stuff}
@cindex Copyright
@cindex Distribution

AmiFTP is Copyright @copyright{} 1995 Magnus Lilja. All Rights Reserved.

Distribution:

At this time I do not want AmiFTP uploaded to Aminet since I don't think it's 
ready for it. This version may not be included on any PD-CDROM, or in any 
commercial package. Please respect that this is a "public beta" and 
therefore don't upload it to lots of ftp-sites, newest version is always
available from:
@display
ftp://eniac.campus.luth.se/pub/amiga/amiftp and
http://www.lysator.liu.se/~lilja/AmiFTP.html
@end display

DISCLAIMER: THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS. USE IT AT YOUR OWN RISK.

@node Addresses, Requirements, Copyright, Top
@code{Authors addresses}

@table @asis
@item @code{Normal mail:}

@example
  Magnus Lilja
  Alsättersgatan 9C:17
  S-581 51 LINKÖPING
  SWEDEN
@end example

@item @code{E-Mail:}
@example
  lilja@@lysator.liu.se
@end example
@end table

New versions of AmiFTP will be available via ftp from
@example
 eniac.campus.luth.se/pub/amiga/amiftp/
@end example
and via www from
@example
 http://www.lysator.liu.se/~lilja/AmiFTP.html
@end example
I will upload AmiFTP to Aminet when I think it's ready for it.

@node Requirements, Installation, Addresses, Top
@code{Requirements}

In order to run AmiFTP you'll need AmigaOS 3.0 or higher, and AmiTCP 3.0 or higher.
A special version for AS225/mlink is also available.

@node Installation, Usage, Requirements, Top
@code{Installation}

Copy the binary and the icon to your favourite directory.

@node Usage, Arguments, Installation, Top
@code{Usage}

AmiFTP can be started either from the CLI or from Workbench.
@menu
* Arguments::          Command line arguments and Tooltypes.
* ARexx::              ARexx interface
* Global preferences:: The Global preferences window
@end menu

@node Arguments,ARexx,Usage,Usage
@code{Arguments}

The following arguments are available as cli arguments and Workbench Tooltypes:

FIXEDFONTNAME - This font is used in the main listview.

FIXEDFONTSIZE - And the size for the above font.

ICONIFIED - Start AmiFTP in iconified mode.

PORTNAME  - The name of AmiFTP's ARexx port.

PROPFONTNAME - This font is used in all gadgets except the main listview.

PROPFONTSIZE - And the size for the above font.

PUBSCREEN - Name of the public screen AmiFTP should open on.

SETTINGS  - Tells AmiFTP which preference-file to use.

@node ARexx,GETATTR,Arguments,Usage
@code{ARexx}

AmiFTP's ARexx-port default name is "AMIFTP".
In case a commands fails a non-zero returncode is returned.@*
The following ARexx commands are available:
@menu
* GETATTR::
* SETATTR::
* CONNECT::
* DISCONNECT::
* CD::
* LCD::
* SITE::
* GET::
* MGET::
* PUT::
* MPUT::
* QUIT::
@end menu

@node GETATTR,SETATTR,ARexx,ARexx
@code{GETATTR}

Syntax: GETATTR STEM/A,HOTLIST/S

Description:

Fills the STEM-variable with current AmiFTP-status:
@example
stem.VERSION   = Version of AmiFTP
stem.SCREEN    = Name of the public screen AmiFTP lives on
stem.HOST      = Current host
stem.PORT      = Current port
stem.PROXYHOST = Name of proxyhost
stem.PROXYPORT = Proxyport
stem.USEPROXY  = Use proxy for this connection?
stem.ANONYMOUS = Set to 1 if anonymous login is used, otherwise 0
stem.USERNAME  = Loginname used
stem.LOCALDIR  = Current localdirectory
stem.REMOTEDIR = Current remotedirectory
stem.CONNECTED = Set to 1 if AmiFTP is connected, otherwise 0. (AmiFTP will send a "NOOP"-command 
in order to check this)

If HOSTLIST is specified the following structure will also be set:
stem.HOTLIST.COUNT       = Number of hotlist entries 
stem.HOTLIST.n.NAME      = Host hotlist name
stem.HOTLIST.n.ADDRESS   = Host address
stem.HOTLIST.n.PORT      = Port number to use
stem.HOTLIST.n.USERNAME  = Loginname
stem.HOTLIST.n.ANONYMOUS = Set to 1 if anonymous login should be used
stem.HOTLIST.n.REMOTEDIR = Default remote directory
stem.HOTLIST.n.LOCALDIR  = Default local directory
stem.HOTLIST.n.USEPROXY  = Set to 1 if proxy should be used

@end example

@node SETATTR,CONNECT,GETATTR,ARexx
@code{SETATTR}

Syntax: SETATTR HOST/K,PORT/K,USEPROXY/S,REMOTEDIR/K,LOCALDIR/K,USERNAME/K,PASSWORD/K

Description:

Sets the attribute to specified value.

@node CONNECT,DISCONNECT,SETATTR,ARexx
@code{CONNECT}

Syntax: CONNECT NOSCAN/S

Description:

Connects AmiFTP to a server, you must have specified which server you want to connect to
with either 'SETATTR HOST server' or 'SITE servername'. If you don't want AmiFTP to read
the remote directory use the NOSCAN option.

@node DISCONNECT,CD,CONNECT,ARexx
@code{DISCONNECT}

Syntax: DISCONNECT

Description:

Disconnect AmiFTP from the current server. It is safe to call DISCONNECT even if you're not
connected to a server.

@node CD,LCD,DISCONNECT,ARexx
@code{CD}

Syntax: CD NOSCAN/S,PARENT/S,DIR

Description:

Changes remote directory to DIR or PARENT. If you don't want AmiFTP to read the directory use the NOSCAN
option.

@node LCD,SITE,CD,ARexx
@code{LCD}

Syntax: LCD DIR

Description:

Changes local directory to DIR.

@node SITE,GET,LCD,ARexx
@code{SITE}

Syntax: SITE SITE/A/F

Description:

Scans the sitelist and, if the SITE is present, makes AmiFTP ready to connect to the site. Use the CONNECT-command to connect.

@node GET,MGET,SITE,ARexx
@code{GET}

Syntax: GET ASCII/S,BIN/S,FILE/A,LOCAL

Description:

Gets a file from server in ASCII or BINary mode (default is binary), with 
the filename LOCAL if specified, otherwise the filename will be the same as FILE.

@node MGET,PUT,GET,ARexx
@code{MGET}

Syntax: MGET ASCII/S,BIN/S,FILE/M

Description:

Gets multiple files in ASCII or BINary mode (default is binary) from the server.

@node PUT,MPUT,MGET,ARexx
@code{PUT}

Syntax: PUT FILE,REMOTE

Description:

Uploads FILE to the server.

@node MPUT,QUIT,PUT,ARexx
@code{MPUT}

Syntax: MPUT FILE/M

Description:

Uploads multiple files to the server.

@node QUIT, Global preferences, MPUT,ARexx
@code{QUIT}

Syntax: QUIT

Description:

Quits AmiFTP, if you are connected to a server AmiFTP will disconnect you first.

@node Global preferences,Acknowledgements ,QUIT,Usage
@code{Preferences}

@itemize
@item
Anonymous password:@*
Enter your email-address here, this will be sent to the ftp-server
when you log in as anonymous user.
@item
View command:@*
Enter the command AmiFTP should use when viewing files, %F in the string will expand to the filename
and %P will expand to the name of the public screen AmiFTP lives on. Note that at the moment you
have to specify the complete path for the command if you run AmiFTP from Workbench since I haven't
fixed the path yet.
@item
Proxy host:@*
The name of the proxy-host to use for proxy-connections. Note that the proxy that AmiFTP needs is
not generally available, it will not work with the Cern httpd-proxy function.
@item
Proxy port:@*
Which port on the proxy-host to use.
@item
Use proxy as default?@*
Should AmiFTP use the proxy for all connections? You can override this with the proxy-flag for each site.
@item
Show dotfiles?@*
Determines whether files beginning with a dot (.) should be viewed.
@item
Ignore case?@*
Well, guess twice!
@end itemize

@node Acknowledgements,History, Global preferences,Top
@code{Acknowledgements}

First of all, thanks to all who have tested the program and reported bugs/suggestions.

Special thanks to:
@example
Andreas Johansson (andjo@@lysator.liu.se) for lots of alphatesting
Per Peman (peman@@ludd.luth.se) for testing and for the ftp-site
@*And the following translators:@*
Volker Graf (vgraf@@hydra.informatik.uni-ulm.de) for the Danish and German translations
Troels Walsted Hansen (troels@@stud.cs.uit.no) for the Norwegian translation
Giacomo Magnini (G.Magnini@@agora.stm.it) for the Italian translation
Arno van Wouwe (apwouwe@@cs.vu.nl) for the Dutch translation.

and everyone else I've forgotten...
@end example

@node History, , Acknowledgements, Top
@code{Version history}


@itemize
@section Changes from AmiFTP 0.691
@item
CPS wasn't cleared after each file uploaded.
@item
Hrm, this time AmiFTP-as225 should really work with mlink (tried it myself).
@section Changes from AmiFTP 0.664
@item
Links were "View"-ed twice, now fixed.
@item
Workaround for the V39/gadtools.library bug so the Transfer Window looks good on V39 too.
@item
The 'Bytes transffered' and 'CPS' was updated one time to much.
@item
Minor things fixed (I forgot to remove some DEBUG-output before the previous release).
@section Changes from AmiFTP 0.648
@item
When downloading multiple files AmiFTP forgot to unmark them.
@item
Abort gadget in 'Transfer window' was ghosted after the first file.
@item
SETATTR USERNAME/PASSWORD works from ARexx now.
@section Changes from AmiFTP 0.535
@item
You can now switch transfermodes from the menu (Binary/ASCII), default is BINARY.
@item
The GUI now uses the screens (proportional) font for everything but the files-listview. Use the
PROPFONTNAME/PROPFONTSIZE and FIXEDFONTNAME/FIXEDFONTSIZE Tooltypes/cli arguments to change fonts.
@item
Lots of small fixes...
@section Changes from AmiFTP 0.533
@item
SETTINGS tooltype/cli arguments now works again, it was broken in 0.533.
@section Changes from AmiFTP 0.348
@item
Resume transfer when downloading files added. When AmiFTP ask for Overwriting an existing file
you can now select between Overwrite, Resume transfer, and Cancel.
@item
Settings-menu added, from where you reach load/save-settings and edit hotlist and the old
preferences (now renamed to "Global").
@item
AmiFTP now looks for the prefs-file in the following directories (and in this order):
Current directory, PROGDIR: (the directory where the AmiFTP binary resides), ENV:, 
~user/ .

Default when saving (that is, if AmiFTP couldn't find a prefs-file at startup) is PROGDIR:
@item
AmiFTP is now localized.
@item
Password-gadget added, AmiFTP will send this password when you're not logging in as
anonymous.

@section Changes from AmiFTP 0.345
@item
The gadgets in SiteList-window got messed up.

@section Changes from AmiFTP 0.275
@item
AmiFTP now clones the path when started from Workbench.
@item
AmiFTP remembers the size and position of the window when iconifying it.
@item
Added directory-cache, AmiFTP will cache up to ten dirs. If you enter a directory
via the Directory stringgadget in the main window the directory will be read from 
the server, not from the cache.
@item
A special version of AmiFTP now works with mlink, though you can't abort filetransfers 
with it. That version is available from http://www.lysator.liu.se/~lilja/AmiFTPmlink.lha
@item
You can now delete remote files with a new menu-function. A requester will pop up asking
you if you're really want to delete the selected file(s). (I accidentally deleted some
files when I was testing this function :).
@item
Select all/unselect all functions available via the menu.
@item
Links are now shown with (link) in the listview.
@item
Upload via ARexx added (PUT/MPUT).
@item
Minor layout-bugs fixed.

@section Changes from AmiFTP 0.138
@item
ARexx port added, not all functions are implemented or finished yet.
@item
When View-ing files AmiFTP now downloads them to T: and when AmiFTP quits the files
will be deleted.
@end itemize

@bye
